---
layout: info
title: Collective Academy FAQ
linktext:  "academy faq"
standfirst: "" 
---

<dl>

dt. What is Collective Academy?

dd. It is a collaboration between "Camden Town Unlimited":http://www.camdentownunlimited.com/ and "Self-organising":http://selforganising.org/.

dt. What courses are offered at Collective Academy?

dd. The first cohort on our full-time six-week _Coding the web_ course starts in January 2014.

dt. Who is this course suitable for?

dd. This course is for you if you are thinking about a career as a software developer. Or you want to be able to use software in your work. Or you want to work on your own software projects for fun or profit.

dt. How much does it cost to attend Collective Academy?

dd. Our _Coding the web_ course is currently free to individuals. We hope to keep it that way.

dt. I cannot study full-time. Are you offering any other courses?

dd. We are concentrating on the full-time course for now, but if you want to hear about new courses, <a href="mailto:collective-academy+subscribe@googlegroups.com" target="_blank">please join our mailing list</a>. 

dt. Are there any restrictions on who can apply to study at Collective Academy?

dd. Anyone over the age of 18 can apply. Some applicants might get priority if they meet the criteria of funding partners.

dt. What are the entry requirements?

dd. There are no academic requirements, but not everyone will be suited to the style of learning our courses require. You need to be self-motivated and committed to collaborative working. Coding also requires a deep curiosity about how things work and a certain stubbornness in the face of repeated failure.

dt. What happens after a course ends?

dd. You will join our alumni network. We encourage you to self-organise into study groups, for which we will provide advice, support, space and mentoring. We will be developing a full programme of continuing education and events, to help you achieve your educational, vocational and work goals, whatever they may be.

dt. I want to work on my own startup idea after the course. Can you help?

dd. Alumni of the Academy who are serious about starting their own business are encouraged to apply for membership of Collective with all the benefits that provides, including free hot-desking space, participation in the Accelerator programme and access to a wider community of fellow founders and business mentors.

</dl>







