---
layout: post
title: "Coding the web: before we start"
category: info
linktext: before
standfirst: ""
---

h2. Pre-course assignment

If you have any time spare between now and the start of the course, please go to _Codecademy_ and try out:

* "Web Fundamentals":http://www.codecademy.com/tracks/web

And if you are feeling adventurous:

* "jQuery":http://www.codecademy.com/tracks/jquery
* "Javascript":http://www.codecademy.com/tracks/javascript
* "Projects":http://www.codecademy.com/tracks/projects

None of this material is essential at the beginning of the course, but as we pick up speed, you will need to become familiar with HTML, JavaScript and JQuery, so if you make a start beforehand, you will have less work to do in January.

If you find yourself having difficulty with any of the material or want to discuss it, please <a href="mailto:academy@selforganising.org" target="_blank">get in touch</a>. 

h2. Accounts

If you do not already have them, Please set up accounts with the following services:

* Gmail
* Linkedin
* Facebook
* Twitter 
* Github

You may also want to follow "@selforganising":https://twitter.com/selforganising, to which we will post various links that you might find interesting.

h2. Equipment

If you have your own laptop computer (either a Mac or a PC), please bring it. Otherwise, <a href="mailto:academy@selforganising.org" target="_blank">please let us know</a>, and we will provide you with a computer for the duration of the course.

h2. Questions

Please, if you have any doubts or questions, do not hesitate to <a href="mailto:academy@selforganising.org" target="_blank">get in touch</a>. 



 



