---
layout: post
title: The course FAQ
category: info
linktext:  "course faq"
standfirst: "The Course FAQ" 
---
<dl>

dt. Location

dd. This course is taking place at Collective Academy, where we will have our own classroom on the first floor of "C/159":http://camdencollective.co.uk/159-2/.

dt. Before you start

dd. After you have accepted a place, you will be set a long homework assignment, which will be a prerequisite for eventually taking the course. In the weeks leading up to the course, we will meet up weekly to discuss the homework, get to know each other and to start working as a group. If you are unable to complete the homework to your own satisfaction before the course starts, don't worry. You will automatically be offered a place with our next cohort, which we intend to run shortly after this course ends.

dt. Timetable

dd. The day officially starts at 9.30am with a study planning meeting. We recommend you get in well before then. Reviews and presentations are at 5pm. You are welcome to continue working until 9pm [actually, I need to check this]. 

dd. On Mondays at 6.30pm there is a curriculum planning meeting, which you are welcome to attend.

dd. On Wednesdays between 6pm and 9pm we will be joined by a study group of prospective students, some of whom will be making up the next "Coding the web" cohort. You are very welcome to join in.

dt. Curriculum

dd. The first part of the course is made up of a core curriculum made up of a variety of structured online teaching exercises, which will follow on from the pre-course homework assignment. The second part of the course consists of a series of open-ended challenges and programming projects. 

dt. Equipment

dd. All the equipment you need will be provided (although you are also welcome to bring your own).

dd. Aside from the computers, headphones are perhaps the most important tool we provide (although if you have your own pair, you might want to bring them instead). When they are in, it is like wearing a big "Do Not Disturb" sign. So, get yourself a Spotify or Google Play account and make some playlists of your favourite music to work to. But, remember to strike a balance. You will be spending a good part of your day pair programming, doing code reviews, working in groups and discussing your work with others.

dt. Working together

dd. You are encouraged to work together on problems. If you do not understand something, ask a fellow student for help. If somebody asks you for help with a problem, offer to pair program with them for a bit. Always start by giving them time to explain their understanding of the problem. Often just the act of explaining a problem can reveal the answer. Don't be too quick to provide what you think is the solution. Above all, treat another person’s questions as a learning experience for both of you. If you have not tried it before, it is surprising how useful to your own understanding of a problem helping some somebody else with it can be.

dt.  Pair programming

dd. In pair programming, one person is at the keyboard typing code and the other is next to them discussing the problem as they work on it together. Paired sessions can last for a couple of minutes or several hours. 
  
dd. Pair programming is helpful because two people will together have fewer gaps in their knowledge than each of them separately, but just as importantly, talking about a problem as we are trying to solve it can have an extraordinary effect on our understanding of it. 

dd. If you are not used to studying or working collaboratively, it can take a while to get used to pairing. Often, embarrassment at not knowing something or fear of appearing stupid can get in the way. It's worth the trouble of overcoming those feelings. And if you don't suffer these doubts, pairing is a good opportunity to learn some humility: the problem has not been solved until two people have understood it and had a part in solving it.

dd. Sometimes, even with two people, it is possible to get stuck. In that case, take a break. Have a cup of tea. Go for a walk. Do a bit of Google research or check Stack Overflow. Or close your eyes and try to visualise a solution. And then come back to the problem with a fresh perspective and some new ideas.
  
dd. Perhaps you might find pairing with one person particularly productive, but make a point of pairing, at different times, with everyone in the room. It's a great way of getting a different point of view and seeing how different people think about a problem.

dt. Code reviews

dd. A code review is when two or more people look at and discuss a piece of code together after it has been written. 

Code reviews can be great when two people have been working on the same--or similar parts of--problem and they want to compare their solutions. Very often (actually, always) a solution to a problem can be coded in multiple ways. There is always more than one way to do it. A solution might be elegant or easy to understand or short or quick to run or it might use a particularly satisfying idiom, but it usually isn't all of those things at once. Every piece of code that gives the expected output is doing something right.
  
dd. Code reviews can be really useful when you have finished working on a piece of code and want feedback. As with pair programming, explaining your code and discussing your design choices with one or more people can deepen your understanding of the problem and give you valuable insights. Code reviews are useful for the reviewers, too, because it cultivates the ability to read other people's code, which as a programmer you can never do too much of.

dt. Core curriculum

dd. The pace at which we get through the core curriculum will depend on the pace of the whole group. In order to get the most out of the second part of the course, it is important that every member of the group has some familiarity with the material. So, if you find you are getting through the material faster than others, use some of your time to deepen your knowledge of topics you have already covered by pairing up with somebody who is still working through it for the first time.

dt. Self-organising study

dd. In the latter part of the course we are going to be spending more time on some open-ended challenges. A number of these will be provided by our partners, our sponsors and by Collective members.

dd. We encourage you to organise yourselves for each challenge into small groups of three or four and to divide up tasks between you.

dd. Change the composition of the groups for each new challenge. And allow the free flow of information between groups. You are welcome to make contributions to the work of other groups or go and find out what they are working on.

dd. Many of the challenges are somewhat open-ended, are provided without a lot of guidance and are likely to require a fair amount of research as well as hands-on development.

dd. We also encourage you to think about problems that you would like to propose yourself. Towards the end of the course, there will be time to work in groups on a project of your own choosing.

dd. You don't have to bring your own project to work on and in some ways it is better if the projects emerge out of discussions between course participants, so that everyone on a project is equally committed to it. 

dd. It is OK if you don't yet have any ideas for projects. In many ways, it is more important that you are willing to engage constructively with other people's project proposals. Usually, coming up with a good idea and being able to execute it well requires the committed input of more than one person.

dd. Each challenge and each project will end with presentations and demos.

dt. Blogging

dd. We encourage you to blog and vlog regularly about your experiences on this course. It will provide us and prospective students with valuable feedback.

dt. Etiquette

dd. Treat everyone at Collective with kindness and respect. Do not make remarks that are likely to be offensive to others. No subtle sexism (or any "isms", for that matter). Do not put other people down. Do not attempt to justify yourself when your behaviour is challenged, just apologise and move on. 

dd. Here are some put-downs to avoid: No feigning surprise, like "What?! I can't believe you don't know that?". No "Well-actually"s, as in "Well, actually, that's not the way you do it". No offering advice that hasn't been asked for.

dt. Nourishment

dd. We have access to a kitchen, but we need to provide our own refreshments. It might be a good idea to establish a kitty and get some provisions in.

dt. Heating

dd. C/159 does not have central heating, so although there is some heating, dress warmly, just in case.

dt. Health

dd. When working at a computer, it is very easy to forget to look after yourself. Remember to take a short break every 20 minutes or so. Lean back in your chair. Place the palm of your hands on your eyes or slowly turn your head around and focus your eyes in the middle distance or out of the window for 20 seconds. At least every hour, go for a walk and stretch your legs.

</dl>







