---
layout: task
title: "Coding the web: Task One"
category:
linktext:  ""
standfirst: "Build a Web search engine in Python"
---

<dl>
  
dt. The task

dd. Learn the fundamentals of computer science and enough Python to build a Web search engine using Udacity's "Introduction to Computer Science":https://www.udacity.com/course/cs101.

dt. Before you start

dd. Make sure that you have read all the course documents, particularly the "Course guide":http://selforganising.org/course.html and please complete the "Needs assessment":http://goo.gl/LdpXbw.

dt. Time required

dd. Two weeks

dt. The materials

dd. A web browser (Chrome is recommended).

dt. Timetable

* Week 1: Lessons 1-5.
* Week 2: Lesson 6-11, including the exam after Lesson 7, and Lesson 8 (which is a "mini-unit").

dd. We are going to aim to complete one lesson per day. Lessons 1-6 are each followed by a problem set and also an optional problem set. 

dd. It is important that we have all mastered the material in each lesson before moving on.

dt. Daily schedule

dd. You can come in as early as you want in the morning and leave as late as you want in the evening, although don’t work yourself into the ground and give yourself enough time to complete all the day's work. If you miss a day, you will need to study independently in order not to fall behind.

dd. The daily review is at 4pm. This is a time for us all to review the day's work together and to plan the day ahead. Everyone is expected to attend.

dt. Time management

dd. Study without distractions and take regular breaks. Try the "Strict Workflow Chrome extension":https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/strict-workflow/cgmnfnmlficgeijcalkgnnkigkefkbhd?hl=en, which follows the "Pomodoro Technique":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pomodoro_Technique. Please share any study methods that work better for you with the rest of us.

dt. Pair programming

dd. In the first week, try to go through the first few in-lesson exercises on your own and if you do not understand something, view the answer and try again. When you have finished a lesson, but before you have started on a problem set, check to see if anyone who is still working through the lesson would like to pair program with you on any of the exercises.

dd. As you work through the problem sets, keep an eye out for anyone looking for an opportunity to pair program. As well as offering to pair on a problem that you have already worked on, you may also find it useful to pair on a problem that is new to you.

dd. If you are already familiar with Python or are making fast progress, the optional problem sets mean that you are unlikely to run out of material.

dd. Also, remember that pairing on a problem that you have already completed can be as useful to you as to the person you are pairing with. Communicating ideas that you have just yourself learnt is a very good way of deepening your own understanding.

</dl>

_Buon viaggio!_









