---
layout: none
title: "What's the idea behind Collective Academy"
standfirst: 
author: DS
---

One of the main lines of thought with the Collective Academy is that 

however important expertise is, peers matter more.

Cleverness is over-rated.

We want to be as open as we can possibly with our intake, but pretty brutal in rejecting people who aren't prepared to share our ethos of mutual support and collaboration. We don't care where you come from and what your qualification are, but what we cannot tolerate is people who aren't prepared to work hard and pull their weight.

Startup culture

It you want work, employ yourself. If you want skills, teach yourself. And if you want to go somewhere, share the journey.


The five foundations:

Effective feedback
Feedback is information given to the learner and/or the teacher about the learner’s performance relative to learning goals.

Mastery learning
Mastery learning breaks subject matter and learning content into units with clearly specified objectives which are pursued until they are achieved.

Learning to learn

Collaborative learning
Collaborative or cooperative learning can be defined as learning tasks or activities where students work together in a group small enough for everyone to participate on a collective task that has been clearly assigned...There is some evidence that collaboration can be supported with competition between groups, but this is not always necessary, and can lead to learners focusing on the competition rather than the learning it aims to support. Approaches which promote talk and interaction between learners tend to promote the best gains. 

peer tutoring
A range of approaches in which learners work in pairs or small groups to provide each other with explicit teaching support.


Master, personalise, 


