---
layout: post
title: How to start a dialogue about code
standfirst: 
author: DS
---
I think--although I am not entirely sure--that learning to program in pairs can be for most people a more efficient and more enjoyable experience than learning alone. The question is: what are the conditions that make it so.

Here is a first stab at an answer:

1. People need to have similar levels of motivation and commitment.

2. It probably helps if people have similar levels of competence, although this matters less than motivation.

3. It probably helps to pair with different people at different times in order to get experiences of working both with a partner who understands a bit more and with a partner who understands a bit less than you do.

4. Use only one computer when pairing.

5. Treat each pairing session as a structured dialogue. Proceed with a series of questions and answers.

Here is an initial list of questions:

1. When defining a new procedure are we using sensible names? Is it obvious at first glance what the procedure is for?

2. What are the inputs for the procedure? And are these inputs reflected in the arguments?

3. Do you expect the procedure to have a return value and if so what do you expect it to be?

4. What's a sensible first test for the procedure? Is this the simplest possible test that you can think of?

5. As you work through the problem, are you working from the outsides in or are you trying to solve the problem in a linear sequence from top to bottom? [1]

6. As you work through the problem, are all your passing tests still passing? If not, why?

7. Are you adding tests as you go? What test are you going to add next?

[1]: I am going to go into this issue of working outside in, instead of top to bottom, in another post

