---
layout: post
title: Objects, webapp and jinja
standfirst: 
author: DS
---

_in progress_

#####Classes and objects

___Objects___ are blocks of code that ___encapsulate___ data and behaviour. 

The advantage of _encapsulating_ data and behaviour in this way is supposed to be that it allows the programmer to effectively model complex real-world behaviour. In practical terms, it does tend to reduce the need for functions with long lists of ___arguments___.

An _object_ is instantiated from  a ___class___ that defines the kinds of data and behaviour available to that _object_. 

The behaviour of an _object_ is defined in the ___methods___ of the _class_. _Methods_ are just functions that are available to _objects_ of a _class_. 

The data of an object are generally known as ___attributes___, which are just variables that are defined in the _object_.

_Classes_ exist in a ___class heirarchy___, where ___subclasses___ that define more specific behaviour are descended from ___superclasses___ that define more general behaviour. 

_Classes_ can ___inherit___ their behaviour from more than one _superclass_ but, in general, this is not recommended practice. _Classes_ defined with more than one _superclass_ can often lead to confusion. 

When an _object_ ___calls___ one of its  _methods_, if the _method_ is not defined in the _class_ from which that _object_ derives, then the _superclasses_ are scrutinised for a _method_ with the appropriate name.

_Objects_ can be ___composed___ of _attributes_ that are themselves _objects_. In this way, _methods_ can be called from _objects_ within _objects_ within _objects_.

#####Objects in Python

In Python, every _method_ of a _class_ must be _defined_ with an _object_ of that class as its first ___argument___. This is a quirk of the implementation of _methods_ in Python. By convention, the _argument_ name used is ___self___. 

When an _object_ calls one of its _methods_, the _object_ itself is inserted as the first _argument_ of the _method_. In this way, the _definition_ of a _method_ has  one more _argument_ than when the _method_ is _called_.

#####webapp2

Almost all Python web application frameworks use the ___Web Server Gateway Interface___ (or ___WSGI___), which handles the interface between web servers and web applications written in Python.

___webapp2___ is a simple web application framework that consists of two main parts: a ___WSGIApplication___ instance that routes incoming requests and ___RequestHandler___ classes that process requests and build responses.

######The _WSGIApplication_ object

    import webapp2

    class MainPage(webapp2.RequestHandler):

        def get(self):
            self.response.headers['Content-Type'] = 'text/plain'
	    self.response.write('Hello, World!')

    app = webapp2.WSGIApplication([('/', MainPage)], debug=True)
			



