---
layout: post
title: A quick introduction to git
standfirst: 
author: DS
---

Note: this is a slightly different method to the one used in class on Friday

#####Create a GitHub project

* [Go to the __new__ page on GitHub](https://github.com/new).
* Select the `Initialize this repository with a README` option.
* Add `.gitignore: Python`, if you like
* Click on `Create repository`

When redirected to the new repo page, go to `HTTPS clone URL` on the right of the page. Where it says `You can clone with HTTPS, SSH, or Subversion`, select `SSH`. This allows you `push` changes to your repo without having to enter your username and password every time you do so. Then click on the `Copy to Clipboard` icon.

Next, return to the command line on your development server:

* Navigate to the directory where you want to put your repo.
* Type `git clone` and paste the URL copied from the GitHub repo page.

(The [GitHub help pages](https://help.github.com/) are also worth a read)

If you have not set up your git identity on your dev box, you will need to do so.

    git config --global user.name "your name"
    git config --global user.email your-email-address

#####Check the status of the new repository

    git status

You should see:

    # On branch master
    nothing to commit, working directory clean 

#####Edit the README file

Use any code editor.

#####Check the status of the new repository

    git status

You should see:

    # On branch master
    # Changes not staged for commit:
    #   (use "git add <file>..." to update what will be committed)
    #   (use "git checkout -- <file>..." to discard changes in working directory)
    #
    #       modified:   README.md                    

#####Commit the changes

    git commit -a -m 'README edit'

#####Check the status again

    git status

#####Push the commited changes back to GitHub

    git push

The first time you do this on your dev box, you will be asked to enter your GitHub credentials

#####Add a new file to the repository

    touch new.txt

#####Add the new file to the repository

    git add new.txt

#####Check the status again, if you like

    git status

#####Add the new file to the repository

    git add new.txt

#####Commit the added files

    git commit -m "a new file"

#####And push them

    git push

#####Or move the contents of an existing directory to the repo

    mkdir ~/tmp           (make a temporary directory in your home directory)
    mv ~/cs253/.git ~/tmp (or whatever your existing directory is called)*
    mv ~/cs253/* .        (copy the contents of your existing directory into your current working directory)

\* required in case you already have a .git directory set up in your existing directory

#####Check the status again

    git status

#####Add the new files to the repository

    git add *

#####Check the status again, if you like

    git status

#####Commit the added files

    git commit -m "copied files"

#####And push them

    git push


Keep `git add`ing files, `git commit`ing them and `git push`ing the changes up to GitHub.

    



    



